# WIP: Reading/Writing the List in Flash
## 0 - Initial Situation
- Flash is set up and ready to be read
    - TODO: What does this mean?
      - Does this imply that we already found the list and checked whether a `write_confirm` has been written?
        - If yes: where does that happen?
        - If no: how do we go about it?
      - Generally: Where/when do we check for the `write_confirm` block?
      - Generally: Should we keep a "list counter", as well? So that we write the same counter value to all items in the end?
- `StorageList` is ready, so nodes can be attached

## 1 - Attaching
1. The first node attaches to the list by calling the `attach()` function
2. A `read` task is triggered and waits for **10 ms (TODO)** before reading (to give other nodes time to attach)
3. Other nodes attach, resetting the wait timer
4. On timer expiration, continue the `read` task

Situation:
- (Ideally) All nodes are attached to the list -> all keys are present
- Nodes contain no payload/data
- List can be traversed

## 2 - Hydration
1. The `read` task calls `queue::iter()` and iterates over the items in the `StorageList`
2. For every item the queue returns:
    1. Extract metadata (key, counter) and payload from the item data.
    2. Find the corresponding List Node
        - Skip the item if no Node with such a key exists
        - If the key is the `write_confirm` key, ... TODO
    3. Check `node.counter`
        - `== 0`: `node.counter = item.counter`
        - `!=0`: There is more than one item for this node! -> TODO: How do we handle this? We discussed returning an error and letting the user decide, so we would need another `State` 
    4. Lookup the deserialization function in the `Node`'s `VTable` and deserialize the payload
    5. Handle the deserialization result appropriately:
        - Ok(): `node.state = State::ValidNoWriteNeeded`
        - Err(): `node.state = State::NonResident`    
3. For all remaining Nodes in the list, set the `node.state = State::NonResident`
    TODO: Or is it better to set all to "NonResident" first and then change them as we go through the flash?
    
# 3 - Writing
- TODO: Write similar to what has been in intrusive.rs?
- Read back the written data to confirm successful write
  - Success:
    1. write a `write_confirm` block
    2. Delete old items
  - Fail: TODO
# Deleting old entries
Question: What happens with entries that are in flash but not in the list? Delete them, too?
